Smart logistics with the commissioning robot TORU

Automate the storage and retrieval of shoe boxes or custom KLTs from shelving racks.

Integration

Transfer systems

Technology & Safety

Fleet Management

TORU

Commissioning robot TORU integrates easily and without major adjustments into an existing warehouse and processes. Once configured, it works autonomously alongside its human colleagues. The connection to a warehouse management system is uncomplicated via WLAN.

Shoe boxes are its specialty: the intelligent picking robot TORU picks individual boxes — even from stacks — and takes them directly to the transfer station. Of course, it also brings them back again for storage or returns. Up to 20 hours a day. This allows him to be active outside regular work shifts and, for example, smooth out peaks through preparatory work. After an update, TORU also picks up special small load carriers (KLTs) as an integral part of the NEOintralogistics logistics system in its proven reliable manner.

Picking with TORU not only adapts to your warehouse environment, but also to your needs: New robots can be integrated directly, as they inherit their knowledge from the TORU(s) already implemented. Your robot fleet grows with your success.

Picking robot TORU in action

The mobile picking robot TORU is ideal for sorting orders into dedicated compartments and picking up boxes for the storage process. It picks individual shoeboxes or specialNEO-KLTsand transports them to a transfer point. Here, TORU can consolidate different items in a single order so that the packaging process can be initiated directly.

Flexibility for your processes: Transfer stations at a glance

TORU integrates perfectly into your current processes. No matter which transfer stations you use in your warehouse or picking process. TORU reliably handles the greatest possible variance within an operating range of 8 cm to 250 cm above the floor:

Conveyor belt

Picked cartons can be placed directly on conveyor sticks to be fed to a sorter, for example, or to the automatic packing line.

Flow rack

TORU places cartons directly into flow racks and picks from them. The handling is suitable for downstream tote processes as well as single & multi orders.

Order picking trolley

Shoe boxes can be picked up from or delivered to picking trolleys. Ideal for sorting orders and other inbound & outbound processes.

Putwall

Picking via the putwall synchronises pick-by-light compartment displays and thus offers maximum flexibility in sorting orders and subsequent processes.

Technology & safety: Commissioning robot TORU in detail

The picking robot TORU helps your human colleagues to handle order picking with significantly less effort. It works just about 24/7 and gives you greater independence from order peaks and staff planning during off-peak shifts, vacation periods or sickness waves.

TORU combines high-end technology with intelligent software and the highest safety standards for safe working side by side with people.

Driving base

Lifting column

Gripper

Backpack shelf

Due to the autonomous navigation of the robot, no adjustments by the customer in the form of lines or barcodes on the floor are necessary.

The lifting column enables fast, precise positioning of the gripper to any gripping height as well as agile rotation between the storage rack and the backpack.

The gripper travels in the lifting column and grabs boxes or stacks from the rack with its powerful suction unit.

In its integrated backpack rack, TORU transports cartons that have already been picked to the transfer station or objects to be stored to the storage zone.

Fleet Management for your TORU Fleet

With ARC (Advanced Robot Control), users always have an overview of the entire fleet, the individual TORU-robot as well as the order management and relevant KPIs:

Control of the robot fleet

ARC is the control center of the TORU fleet and is connected to the inventory management system. On a day-to-day basis, ARC not only offers full transparency of all robots, order management and KPIs, but also provides instructions on how to solve problems.

Visual Representation

The visual map display in your own warehouse makes controlling the fleet particularly intuitive. It shows where the individual robots are on the move in the warehouse, which orders they are processing, which items they are currently transporting and which actions are coming up next.

Tracking of KPIs

Relevant KPIs are recorded in real time and clearly displayed. The data overview offers full transparency at all times. For example, fleet performance over a period of time, average utilization or the current status of the transfer stations.

Order Management

Order management ensures optimal structuring of transport orders to guarantee a fast process. Current orders are distributed in the fleet and can be read at any time.

Human Process Coordination

ARC also coordinates the processes between robots and humans. Employees can see directly which picking trolley is ready for pick-up.

Remote Operations

The remote operations team monitors robot activities 24 hours a day, 6 days a week, and can proactively assist remotely if needed, increasing fleet availability.

Autonomous storage and retrieval of shoe boxes or special KLTs in shelfing racks.

Targeted gripping and stacking of boxes

TORU has a precise vacuum gripper arm. This allows it to pick up, lift and place cartons or special totes weighing up to 5.8 kg, with a max. size of 390 x 280 x 145 mm (L x W x H), with piece-by-piece precision. Even entire stacks if necessary.

2D and 3D cameras

TORU locates objects to be picked and free storage locations on the shelf. Using intelligent algorithms, TORU searches for the barcodes and can thus identify the correct object.

16 boxes and a wide range of action

TORU can transport up to 16 objects simultaneously in its backpack rack. With its action range of 8 cm to 250 cm above the ground, it even surpasses human agility — without any back pain.

Safety is always the top priority for TORU

Our robots are safe when dealing with people. To this end, we have equipped them with a state-of-the-art person recognition system from certified manufacturers. We also work closely with the occupational safety specialists in our customers’ factories on site to ensure smooth integration.

This video shows how it all works in practice:

Case Study NEOintralogistics: Automation of existing warehouses with shelving racksLearn more about the innovative solution from NEOintralogistics and how the autonomous mobile robot TORU is applied there.-> No investment costs-> Compatible with all shelving racks-> No modifications required

Case Study NEOintralogistics: Automation of existing warehouses with shelving racks

Learn more about the innovative solution from NEOintralogistics and how the autonomous mobile robot TORU is applied there.-> No investment costs-> Compatible with all shelving racks-> No modifications required

These customers are already benefiting from our robotics solutions: